Tue Jul 3 10:44:40 HST 2018
A degree in psychology earns one a range of employment options.
Tue Jul 3 10:45:47 HST 2018
Tue Jul 3 10:45:59 HST 2018
degrees include psy. d, ph. d, ed. d, m.d., j.d.
psychiatrist does medication, psychologist does not, does therapy 
instead, but makes reccomendations.
patient escaped from mental institution in honolulu, ubered to airport, flew to maui and cali on private jet.
psychologists research development, learning, personality, sensation&perception, social, cultural, cognitive, evolutionary.
philosophy is the reational investigation of the underlying principles of being and knowledge, literally the love of knowledge.
nature vs nutrture is heredity vs environment, dna vs experience
physiology is a branch of biology focused on brain behavior.
foundations of modern psych are seperated from philosophy in the 19th century, influences from physiology remain.
wilhelm wundt 1832-1920 in leipzig germany wrote the first psychology textbook, applied laboratory techniques to study of the mind, structuralism 
identifies atoms of the mind, focusing on basic sensory and perceptuala processes and measured reaction times.
wundt ran a lab in leipzig and brought his knowledge back to america, wrote the first textbook and developed methods, and is widely considered the 
father of psychology.
william james started psychology at harvardin 1870s, opposed wundts approach, and developed functionalism, influenced by darwin was focused on giow 
behavuoirsadapt to environment
freud was an austrian focused on mental illness, father of psychoanalytic theory 
john b watson thought psychologists should study overt behaviour
bf skinner was an american psychologist at harvard, studied learning and effect of reinforcement, studied behavioralism, the idea that free will does 
not exist, human beings are like computers based on stimulus/response (template... response)
skinner researched rats using rewards system experience using food, lights, speaker and shock system, controlling environment and rewards to examine 
free will in this experiment.
g stanley hall was the first individual to receive a phd in psychology
mary whiton calkins was the first woman president of the american psychology association of being denied her doctorate from harvard
margaret floy washburn was the first woman to be awarded a phd in the field, washburn subsequently taugght at wells college 
francis cecil sumner first african american to earn a phd in psychology at clark
kenneth and mamie phipps clark challenged the notion of differences in mental abilities between races, played an important role in desegregation of 
american schools.
Tue Jul 3 11:46:34 HST 2018
Wed Jul 4 23:28:33 HST 2018
Wed Jul 4 23:29:04 HST 2018
